Add benchmarking documentation (#179)
awslabs/mountpoint-s3: doc/BENCHMARKING.md

## Benchmarking

> Currently, Mountpoint for Amazon S3 is an alpha release and we are focusing on delivering high throughput read support.  dIn order to make sure that new changes do not introduce performance regression we have created some performance benchmark  das a part of our CI using [fio](https://github.com/axboe/fio), an awesome opensource application for file system benchmarking.

Reviewer: typo "dIn"
to be pedantic, when using describing something as open source, we hyphenate: "open-source application"

```suggestion

Currently, Mountpoint for Amazon S3 is an alpha release and we are focusing on delivering high throughput read support. In order to make sure that new changes do not introduce performance regression, we have created some performance benchmark as a part of our CI using [fio](https://github.com/axboe/fio), an awesome open-source application for file system benchmarking.
```

### Workloads

There are two main types of workload we are testing, sequential read and random read. Each of the test is defined in a separate .fio file, and the file name indicates what is the test case for that file, for example `seq_read.fio` is the benchmark for sequential read. All of fio configuration files can be found at path [mountpoint-s3/scripts/fio/](https://github.com/awslabs/mountpoint-s3/tree/main/mountpoint-s3/scripts/fio).

> In general, we run each IO operation for 30 seconds against a 100 GiB file. But there are some variants in configuration we also want to test to see how Mountpoint would perform with these configurations. Here is the list of all the variants we have tested.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In general, we run each IO operation for 30 seconds against a 100 GiB file. But there are some variants in configuration where we also want to test to see how Mountpoint would perform with these configurations. Here is the list of all the variants we have tested.
```

> * **four_threads**: running the workload concurrently by spawning four threads to do the same job.

Reviewer: Are these FIO threads or FUSE threads?

Author: It's FIO threads, added that to the sentence.

> * **direct_io**: bypassing linux page cache by opening the files with `O_DIRECT` option. This option is only available on Linux.

Reviewer: captialize "Linux", or use "kernel"

```suggestion
* **direct_io**: bypassing kernel page cache by opening the files with `O_DIRECT` option. This option is only available on Linux.
```

* **small_file**: run the IO operation against smaller files (5 MiB instead of 100 GiB).

### Regression Testing
Our CI runs the benchmark automatically for any new commits to the main branch or specific pull requests that we have reviewed and tagged with **performance** label. Every benchmark from the CI workflow will be running on `m5n.24xlarge` EC2 instances (100 Gbps network speed) with Ubuntu 22.04 in us-east-1 against a bucket in us-east-1.

We keep the records of benchmarking results in `gh-pages` branch and it is available for viewing [here](https://awslabs.github.io/mountpoint-s3/dev/bench/).

### Running the benchmark

> Our benchmark script is designed for CI testing only, but in case you wish to run it manually, you should be able to do so by following these steps.

Reviewer: We can reword to be a bit clearer, and also drop "should"

```suggestion
While our benchmark script is written for CI testing only, it is possible to run manually.
You can use the following steps.
```

1. Install dependencies by running below commands for Ubuntu.

        sudo apt-get update
        sudo apt-get -y install cmake libclang-dev libunwind-dev pkg-config jq fio
        sudo apt-get -y install fuse libfuse-dev
        echo 'user_allow_other' | sudo tee -a /etc/fuse.conf

2. Create the bench files manually in your bucket. The size of the files must be exactly the same as the size defined in fio configuration files. The easiest way to do this is running fio against your local file system first to let fio create the files for you, and then upload them to your S3 bucket using the AWS CLI. For example:

        fio --directory=your_local_dir --filename=your_file_name mountpoint-s3/scripts/fio/seq_read_small.fio
        aws s3 cp your_local_dir/your_file_name s3://your_s3_bucket/prefix_path/

3. Set environment variables related to the benchmark. There are four required environment variables you need to set in order to run the benchmark.

        export S3_BUCKET_NAME=bucket_name
        export S3_BUCKET_TEST_PREFIX=prefix_path/
        export S3_BUCKET_BENCH_FILE=bench_file_name
        export S3_BUCKET_SMALL_BENCH_FILE=small_bench_file_name

> 4. Run the [benchmark script](https://github.com/awslabs/mountpoint-s3/blob/main/mountpoint-s3/scripts/fs_bench.sh).

Reviewer: Prefer relative link here

```suggestion
4. Run the [benchmark script](../mountpoint-s3/scripts/fs_bench.sh).
```

Author: Changed to relative link, note that we won't be able to view it in the PR because the branch doesn't exist in upstream repo.

        ./mountpoint-s3/scripts/fs_bench.sh

> 5. You should see the benchmark logs in `bench.out` file in your project path and the combined results will be saved into a json file at `results/output.json`.

Reviewer: Project root directory? Also, capitalise JSON.

```suggestion
5. You should see the benchmark logs in `bench.out` file in the project root directory. The combined results will be saved into a JSON file at `results/output.json`.
```

## Benchmarking
Currently, Mountpoint for Amazon S3 is an alpha release and we are focusing on delivering high throughput read support. In order to make sure that new changes do not introduce performance regression, we have created some performance benchmark as a part of our CI using [fio](https://github.com/axboe/fio), an awesome open-source application for file system benchmarking.

### Workloads

> There are two main types of workload we are testing, sequential read and random read. Each of the test is defined in a separate .fio file, and the file name indicates what is the test case for that file, for example `seq_read.fio` is the benchmark for sequential read. All of fio configuration files can be found at path [mountpoint-s3/scripts/fio/](https://github.com/awslabs/mountpoint-s3/tree/main/mountpoint-s3/scripts/fio).

Reviewer: Sorry, I didn't catch this link as being absolute.

```suggestion
There are two main types of workload we are testing, sequential read and random read. Each of the test is defined in a separate .fio file, and the file name indicates what is the test case for that file, for example `seq_read.fio` is the benchmark for sequential read. All of fio configuration files can be found at path [mountpoint-s3/scripts/fio/](../mountpoint-s3/scripts/fio).
```

We keep the records of benchmarking results in `gh-pages` branch and it is available for viewing [here](https://awslabs.github.io/mountpoint-s3/dev/bench/).

### Running the benchmark
While our benchmark script is written for CI testing only, it is possible to run manually.
You can use the following steps.

1. Install dependencies by running below commands for Ubuntu.

        sudo apt-get update
        sudo apt-get -y install cmake libclang-dev libunwind-dev pkg-config jq fio
        sudo apt-get -y install fuse libfuse-dev
        echo 'user_allow_other' | sudo tee -a /etc/fuse.conf

2. Create the bench files manually in your bucket. The size of the files must be exactly the same as the size defined in fio configuration files. The easiest way to do this is running fio against your local file system first to let fio create the files for you, and then upload them to your S3 bucket using the AWS CLI. For example:

        fio --directory=your_local_dir --filename=your_file_name mountpoint-s3/scripts/fio/seq_read_small.fio

>         aws s3 cp your_local_dir/your_file_name s3://your_s3_bucket/prefix_path/

Reviewer: If we swap steps 2 and 3, we can use the env variables here.

```suggestion
        aws s3 cp your_local_dir/your_file_name s3://${S3_BUCKET_NAME}/${S3_BUCKET_TEST_PREFIX}
```

Author: Sounds good, swapped it
